beautiful it's working we get my phone
off the table everything clear and in
order expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language in this live class I'm going to
teach you how to do IELTS academic
writing task 1 we're going to focus on
line graphs which may on test day look
something like this you need to describe
this in a hundred and fifty words or
more in under 20 minutes what are you
going to do on test day because you need
a structure you need a method to do this
the first thing that you should do is
read the description because it will
give you it will describe what the graph
is about in some minor detail this one
here is written here at the top it says
this you want to read this sentence very
carefully the graph below shows the
macronutrient intake of Australians in
terms of kilocalories per day per person
from 1909 to 2006 okay
find the macronutrient intake now if we
remember I think this was carbohydrate
this one was fat and then below that was
actually protein so they must be
macronutrients now it's in kilocalories
which you can see here 1,600 1,400 etc
they're the kilocalories okay fine and
from 1909 to 2006 well this is the time
this is the time arrow here so this must
be 2006 here etc cool so what do you
have to do well here's the instruction
and it really tells you to do three
things it says summarize the information
which we will do it says select and
report the main features which we will
do and it also says make comparisons
which we will also do and if we do this
we will satisfy the IELTS examiner's and
we will hopefully get a high score right
as long as your grammar and your
vocabulary is good let me show you a
structure that works so we need a
superstructure the superstructure
basically has three parts which goes
back to that instruction we want to
summarize we want to describe we want to
compare these are the three things
summarized describe compare so this is
what it's going to look like on test day
after we've summarized described and
compared it's going to have three
separate paragraphs the first one is the
shortest and then a sort of medium-sized
one and then a big bulky paragraph at
the end fine how do we summarize well
that's this one here let me read you
this
it says the given line graph represents
the amount of fat carbohydrate and
protein macronutrients consumed by
Australians over a 97 year period
macronutrient consumption is measured in
kilocalories how did I do that all I did
was I rewrote that task that description
in my own words so what I did was I sort
of broke it down this one said the graph
represents I said the line graph given
this says shows I said represents macro
macronutrient intake I said the amount
of blah blah blah eaten etc please
rewrite the task description in your own
words I will give you two minutes it can
be one or two sentences that's fine
those of you in on youtube if you having
trouble viewing my screen clearly please
change the screen settings to standard
definition or high-definition 720p if
you can do that cool let's have a look
at you guys here in the webinar please
write your sentences in there that's
fine I'm gonna move on I don't wanna
spend too much time doing this you can
always come back and watch this video
either if your paid user
yes paid users certainly can call so
we've rewritten the task in our own
words so I wrote the given line graph
represents the amount of fat
carbohydrate and protein or
macronutrients consumed by Australians
over a 97 year period macronutrient
consumption is measured in kilocalories
okay now we're going to describe main
trends and key features now importantly
when we do this we're not going to
mention data we're not going to mention
particularly the x-axis we could mention
the y-axis that's fine sorry vice versa
we don't want to mention the y-axis we
can mention the x-axis that might be
okay let me show you what I mean okay so
on the left hand side I look at this
graph and I want to just describe it
broadly not in detail okay so the first
thing that I see is that Australians ate
more carbohydrates than any other than
fat and protein was the lowest so there
seems to be a hierarchy here we've got 1
2 3 we've got the most consumed and
we've got the lowest consumed so I'm
gonna write a sentence here where I
describe that where I described which
was most consumed and which was least
consumed then I'm going to do this I'm
going to look at number 2 I'm gonna
describe overall carb trend so this is
carbohydrate so I'm just gonna look at
this trend here and it sort of went down
and then when I went back up ok so I'm
just gonna
very briefly describe that no details
I'm not going to use any of this access
here none of these numbers okay and in
fact I'm not really going to use any of
the x-axis either then number three I'm
gonna describe just in generally not in
detail overall fat trend and this to me
looks like a slight upward trend and
then fourth sentence I'm gonna describe
the overall protein trend and this sort
of remained relatively stable maybe a
very slight increase so I'm gonna read
your mind and then I want you to do it
I said overall carbohydrates were the
most consumed macronutrient followed by
fat and then protein the amount of
carbohydrate consumed fell slightly
before rising again fat consumption rose
slightly over the time protein remained
relatively stable so I've written four
sentences I want you to do that please
write these four sentences I'll give you
four minutes
you
alright let me have a look at what you
guys have written okay it was reported
that the highest consumption of
carbohydrates was okay 1400 kilocalories
per day no we don't want to mention data
not yet
we're just mentioning things broadly in
general so no data from the graph okay
that's fine though actually it's not
fine
don't mention data from the graph that
comes next in the following paragraph
we're going to get specific we're going
to write in detail about what we see
keep going I want you to finish your
four sentences please
oops
good so Sammy's got a good sentence on
YouTube says according to the diagram
according to the graph protein
consumption is higher
followed by carbohydrate and fat
respectively except that that's wrong
its carbohydrate was the most consumed
followed by fat and protein but it's a
good sentence structure good sentence
structure somebody's John's written here
I would like to describe no no no no use
of the personal pronoun I in academic
writing task 1
sorry
good and reg Vodianova
overall it can be seen that
carbohydrates are the most consumed
macronutrient in Australia followed by
fats and protein as the least among the
three carbohydrates follow a fluctuating
pattern good looking good well done
Andre a suet area overall carbohydrates
were the most consumed micronutrient
macro nutrient compared to protein and
fat throughout the period group
carbohydrates carbohydrate intake rose
steadily followed by fat intake while
fat intake remains stable good that's
fine that's fine
one more yeah no that's fine
good another couple of minutes to finish
your four sentences just let me have a
look at you guys here in the chat what's
happening
I hate iTunes I've got to say just let
me kill iTunes for a second I hate how
it pops up and makes you want to listen
to it and ask you to download it go away
iTunes I don't like you and photos
what's going on there crazy alright
let's go back here here we are it's
going to the chat over all Australians
consume carbohydrates the most the
amount of carbohydrate consumed showed
fluctuation before it slightly decreased
fat consumption increased gradually over
the period protein consumption remained
steady good that's nice that's nice
that's that's on on target on target the
amount of carbohydrates
consumption the amount of carbohydrate
consumption was high
full-stop overall carbohydrate
consumption was getting up and down was
increasing and decreasing was
fluctuating fluctuating as the word
fluctuated the graph shows that fat
tendency was similar to carbohydrates
good that's fine alvera overall the most
consumed macronutrient was carbohydrate
followed by fat and then protein
carbohydrate fluctuated before
experiencing a rise towards the end of
the year fat on the other hand demos
a gradual increase good they're looking
good
they're just broad descriptions of the
trends you can also do key features but
it doesn't really suit this graph cool
let me show you mine again now I'm gonna
go back want to read this again so this
is my first sentence I said overall
carbohydrates were the most consumed
macronutrient followed by fat and then
protein the amount of carbohydrate
consumed fell slightly before rising
again fat consumption rose slightly over
time protein remained relatively stable
very clear very simple descriptions of
each of those trends fine let's now do
the difficult bit where we have to
compare the data okay you have to
compare data how do we do this someone
I'm gonna read you this one just let me
move my drawing tool here in 1909
carbohydrate intake was around 1400
kilocalories per day while constantly
fluctuating the trend decreased until
about 1962 before rising again to a peak
in the late 1900s by 2006 it was being
consumed at around 1,300 kilocalories
per day
in contrast fat followed a more linear
trend over the period although there
were constant slight fluctuations the
amount of fat consumed rose from just
below 800 kilocalories per day to
approximately 950 kilocalories per day
comparatively protein followed the most
stable trend barely changing over the 97
years it started at just below 300
kilocalories per day and finished in
2006 at perhaps just about 300
kilocalories per day there was one
slight deviation which occurred in 1941
and lasted for several years fine so
what have I done here what I have done
is this I have described the
carbohydrate trend this time in detail
okay in detail and I've used data from
here I've talked about
the calories and I've also used data
from the x-axis I've talked about the
years and I've said okay here it sort of
started to decrease by 1929 here it
started to increase so you've got to use
your eyes to do that now what I have
then done is I've put a comparative link
between carb and fat and I said in
contrast okay this is how we compare the
data in contrast then I did the same
thing I described fat in detail so I
just want you now just to write one
sentence please describe carbohydrates
in detail this line here I want to
describe this one here in detail and I
want you to use data from here as well
as the time period you might have to
write about three sentences
okay let's have a look at your sentence
serves plural how's that looking okay
okay okay
according to the graph the carbohydrate
consumption was just over 1,400
kilocalories per day and showed
fluctuation until reaching a peak in
1999 before decreasing again good well
done that's looking good overall yes yes
okay good
keep it up keep it up I want you to
finish these sentences and please type
them into the chat when you're done so I
know you're done
good okay you don't have to write single
sentences here you can write multiple
sentences okay let's have a look
1,400 carbohydrates were consumed in
1990 yeah it's actually per day 1,400
kilocalories per day were consumed in
1909 over a period of 20 years the
carbohydrate consumption kept on
fluctuating okay there was an overall
fluctuation in the intake of
carbohydrates initially in 1909 the
consumption of carbohydrates was 1,400
per person then it declined steadily up
to a thousand kilocalories per person
took in a day and rose up okay good
that's looking good well done well done
well done
now what you want to do is you want to
link you want to link that to the
following sentence about fat okay so now
we want to describe fat but we want to
put a clever little device in here we
want to say in contrast
okay in contrast then we want to talk
about fat what happened with fat please
write your single or it's very not a
single please write your detailed
description of what happened with the
consumption of fat over the period from
1909 to 1999
you
whoopsy let me see what's going here
here we go
on the contrary the intake of fat kept
on increasing slowly good in 1909 it was
slightly less than 800 kilocalories and
reached a peak of 1000 kilocalories in
1999 good well done on the other hand
the fat consumption was just under 800
kilocalories per day in 99 Oh 9 and
gradually showed increasing trend which
reached up to a thousand kilocalories
until 1999
conversely fat consumption started at
roughly 800 kilocalories per person per
day
this figure showed a steady increase
throughout the 90 year period reaching
to about a thousand kilocalories per day
each for each person in contrast the
fluctuation of fat consumption since
1909 up to 2008 was slight starting from
800 per day per person
good that's looking good well done well
done well done last one let's do protein
this should be a bit simpler but again I
want you to put a comparative link
between fat and protein only you I want
you to use in contrast or conversely or
on one of those sorts of discourse
markers
or either look here mmm moreover in
contrast to the fat consumption however
mmm not however however is the wrong
word we want to use a contrasting word
in comparison in contrast comparatively
okay not however so let's do in
comparison protein consumption per day
remain steady under 400 kilocalories
over the period of time good well done
that's good just under 400 kilocalories
that was a good observation and well
written by stark contrast it's not stark
contrast that's probably a little bit
two months just by contrast protein
being the least consumed macronutrient
in Australia show okay long subject
there a little bit too long I would say
by by contrast protein was the least
consumed macronutrient in Australia not
being the least was the least with
around at around 300 kilocalories per
day per person in 1909 . it showed
stability throughout the given period
group conversely the consumption of
protein has been elite was the least
when compared to other macronutrients in
1909 it was a little below 300
kilocalories and didn't increase that
much until 1999 nice that's looking good
that's looking good let me show you mine
again I said this in 1909 carbohydrate
intake was around 1400 kilocalories per
day while constantly fluctuating the
trend decreased until about 1962 before
rising again to a peak in the late 1990s
by 2006 it was being consumed at around
1,300 kilocalories per day
in contrast fat followed a more linear
trend over the period although there
were constant slight fluctuations the
amount of fat consumed arose from just
above sorry just below 800 kilocalories
per day to approximately 950 per day
comparatively protein followed the most
stable trend barely changing over the 97
years it started at just below 300
kilocalories per day and finished in
2006 or perhaps just above 300 per day
there was one slight deviation which
occurred in 1941 and lasted for several
years so let's recap what we have
learned we've learned that you really
need to do three things okay three
things we know how to summarize the
graph that's easy you just rewrite
rewrite the task description fine that's
easy then in the second part we describe
main trends or key features depending on
what we're looking at with no data okay
we don't want to use that y axis no data
needed just general just very general
trends then what we do in the third part
in the biggest paragraph is we describe
in detail and compare and we compare by
using those words like in contrast and
and and and and and and and what's
another one conversely might be a nice
one etc we want to use these types of
words between the fat in the
carbohydrate and the protein cool so
overall that's what we're going to write
I think mine was about 180 words so it
was probably a little bit too much you
just need to clear 150 words and you
will get there but perhaps you need help
perhaps you need to go to e to language
comm perhaps you need I don't know
feedback perhaps you need tutorials
perhaps you need materials perhaps you
needs methods lessons it's up to you if
you do need help check out the website
if you're on YouTube right now please do
click like and to leave a comment on
this video I'm gonna leave it there if
you have any questions please feel free
to email hello at e to language comm
okay hello at e to language comm thanks
very much for coming I appreciate it and
I'll see you see you guys soon
whoops what am i done back there go back
here call
you